_Lines Written by Louisa M. Alcott to Her Father_

   Like Bunyan's pilgrim with his pack,
     Forth went the dreaming youth
   To seek, to find, and make his own
     Wisdom, virtue, and truth.
   Life was his book, and patiently
     He studied each hard page;
   By turns reformer, outcast, priest,
     Philosopher and sage.

   Christ was his Master, and he made
     His life a gospel sweet;
   Plato and Pythagoras in him
     Found a disciple meet.
   The noblest and best his friends,
     Faithful and fond, though few;
   Eager to listen, learn, and pay
     The love and honor due.

   Power and place, silver and gold,
     He neither asked nor sought;
   Only to serve his fellowmen,
     With heart and word and thought.
   A pilgrim still, but in his pack
     No sins to frighten or oppress;
   But wisdom, morals, piety,
     To teach, to warn and bless.

   The world passed by, nor cared to take
     The treasure he could give;
   Apart he sat, content to wait
     And beautifully live;
   Unsaddened by long, lonely years
     Of want, neglect, and wrong,
   His soul to him a kingdom was,
     Steadfast, serene, and strong.

   Magnanimous and pure his life,
     Tranquil its happy end;
   Patience and peace his handmaids were,
     Death an immortal friend.
   For him no monuments need rise,
     No laurels make his pall;
   The mem'ry of the good and wise
     Outshines, outlives them all.

A LITTLE GREY CURL

   A little grey curl from my father's head
     I find unburned on the hearth,
   And give it a place in my diary here,
     With a feeling half sadness, half mirth.
   For the long white locks are our special pride,
     Though he smiles at his daughter's praise;
   But, oh, they have grown each year more thin,
     Till they are now but a silvery haze.

   That wise old head! (though it does grow bald
     With the knocks hard fortune may give)
   Has a store of faith and hope and trust,
     Which have taught him how to live.
   Though the hat be old, there's a face below
     Which telleth to those who look
   The history of a good man's life,
     And it cheers like a blessed book.

   [A]A peddler of jewels, of clocks, and of books,
     Many a year of his wandering youth;
   A peddler still, with a far richer pack,
     His wares are wisdom and love and truth.
   But now, as then, few purchase or pause,
     For he cannot learn the tricks of trade;
   Little silver he wins, but that which time
     Is sprinkling thick on his meek old head.

   But there'll come a day when the busy world,
     Grown sick with its folly and pride,
   Will remember the mild-faced peddler then
     Whom it rudely had set aside;
   Will remember the wares he offered it once
     And will seek to find him again,
   Eager to purchase truth, wisdom, and love,
     But, oh, it will seek him in vain.

   It will find but his footsteps left behind
     Along the byways of life,
   Where he patiently walked, striving the while
     To quiet its tumult and strife.
   But the peddling pilgrim has laid down his pack
     And gone with his earnings away;
   How small will they seem, remembering the debt
     Which the world too late would repay.

   God bless the dear head! and crown it with years
     Untroubled and calmly serene;
   That the autumn of life more golden may be
     For the heats and the storms that have been.
   My heritage none can ever dispute,
     My fortune will bring neither strife nor care;
   'Tis an honest name, 'tis a beautiful life,
     And the silver lock of my father's hair.

TO PAPA

   In high Olympus' sacred shade
     A gift Minerva wrought
   For her beloved philosopher
     Immersed in deepest thought.

   A shield to guard his aged breast
     With its enchanted mesh
   When he his nectar and ambrosia took
     To strengthen and refresh.

   Long may he live to use the life
     The hidden goddess gave,
   To keep unspotted to the end
     The gentle, just, and brave.

December, 1887.               LOUISA M. ALCOTT.